CHAPTER 1
Introduction to Flutter
Flutter is an open-source UI framework developed by Google for building natively compiled applications for mobile, web, and desktop platforms from a single codebase. It uses the Dart programming language and emphasizes high performance, flexibility, and beautiful user interfaces.

Flutter is particularly popular among developers for its hot reload, rich set of pre-designed widgets, and ability to deliver visually appealing applications with native performance.

Key Features of Flutter
Single Codebase: Write once, deploy to Android, iOS, web, and desktop.
Hot Reload: Allows developers to see changes in real time without restarting the app.
Widget-Based: Everything in Flutter is a widget, from buttons to layout structures.
Fast Performance: Compiles to native machine code using Dart's Ahead-of-Time (AOT) compilation.
Customizable UI: Supports Material Design (Android) and Cupertino (iOS) for platform-specific styling.
Strong Community: Backed by Google and a large open-source community.
Getting Started with Flutter
1. System Requirements
Before starting, ensure your system meets Flutter's requirements:

Operating System: Windows, macOS, or Linux.
Disk Space: At least 1.5 GB for Flutter SDK.
Tools: Git, Android Studio or Visual Studio Code, and a web browser.
2. Install Flutter SDK
Download Flutter SDK:
Visit Flutter's official website and download the SDK for your platform.

Extract the SDK:
Extract the downloaded ZIP file and place it in your preferred location, e.g., C:\src\flutter (Windows) or /Users/<your-user>/flutter (macOS/Linux).

Add Flutter to PATH:

On Windows:
Update the PATH environment variable to include flutter\bin.
On macOS/Linux:
Add the following line to your shell configuration file (.bashrc or .zshrc):
export PATH="$PATH:/path-to-flutter/bin"
Verify Installation:
Run the following command to confirm Flutter is installed correctly:

flutter doctor
This command checks the environment and lists any missing dependencies.

